# Molviewer
This is a two-fold component app: for building interactive molecular visualizations within a basic Streamlit interface. By providing the PDB code to the left sidebar you can display the visual of molecule.  It is designed to provide quick rendering and visualisation tool for molecular structures for researchers, in a user-friendly interface. The second part of the app provides a quick way to use ESMFold to predict the structure of the molucule based on the unique sequence based on Metas' Metagenomic Atlas.The ESM Metagenomic Atlas contains over 700 million predicted protein structures, revealing the metagenomic world in a way we have never seen before. The Explore page visualizes a sample of 1 million of these. (That’s about how much a browser can handle.) We represent each protein in this dataset as a single point, and reveal the actual protein structure when zooming in or when hovering over it. The color of each point corresponds to the similarity to the closest match we could find in UniRef90, the reference database of known protein sequences. The position in the map is a two-dimensional projection, which groups sequences by similarity, as determined by our language model’s internal representation. The map reveals structure at different scales: local neighbors in the same cluster tend to have similar structures, while nearby clusters preserve certain patterns like secondary structure elements.

The selection of the points we visualize in the Explore page starts by looking at the confidence the ESMFold structure prediction model has in its own predictions. For this we use two metrics: pTM and mean pLDDT. pTM predicts the TM-score and captures a global view of the protein, while pLDDT (predicted LDDT) is a metric that focuses on the local structure. We filtered to keep the high confidence structures where both pTM > 0.7 and pLDDT > 0.7. Over 225 million high confidence predictions remain. The Explore page visualizes a random sample of 1 million. That is less than 0.5% of the high confidence predictions in the ESM Metagenomic Atlas!

Stmol: A component for building interactive molecular visualizations within streamlit web-applications

Nápoles-Duarte JM, Biswas A, Parker MI, Palomares-Baez JP, Chávez-Rojo MA and Rodríguez-Valdez LM (2022) Stmol: A component for building interactive molecular visualizations within streamlit web-applications. Front. Mol. Biosci. 9:990846. doi: 10.3389/fmolb.2022.990846

Stmol features
An easy-to-use component for rendering interactive 3D molecular visualizations of protein and ligand structures within Streamlit web-apps
stmol can render protein and ligand structures with just a few lines of Python code by utilizing popular visualization libraries, currently Py3DMol and Speck.
On the user-end, stmol does not require expertise to interactively navigate.
On the developer-end, stmol can be easily integrated within structural bioinformatic and cheminformatic pipelines to provide a simple means for user-end researchers to advance biological studies and drug discovery efforts.

Stmol provides an easy way for bioinformatic and cheminformatic researchers to create web-apps that guide structure-based and ligand-based drug design through molecular visualizations. In this paper, we highlighted Rascore (Figure 7) a Streamlit web-app which utilizes Stmol for visualization of drug-bound (and unbound) structures of a high-priority cancer target called RAS proteins. Since the launch of Rascore in April, this web-app has accrued over 3,000 users from academia and the pharmaceutical industry who are using the app to guide development of the next generation of RAS inhibitors. Similarly, we envision other researchers will use Stmol to quickly build Streamlit web-apps for the purpose of streamlining drug discovery related to other therapeutic targets. In other scenarios, due to its nature, the contribution of Stmol to drug discovery is limited to the task of visualization, and in this sense it has the potential to be used in conjunction with other packages (e.g., Rdkit, ProLIF, Vina) to build molecular docking interfaces on the browser with all the benefits that this implies, being the reduction of costs in specialized software one of them. We envision other possible applications, but some will require improvements in the library that are for now in the future plans for this project, like improving the interactivity and retrieval of information e.g. displaying atom distances, and also features more oriented to drug discovery.

py3Dmol is python wrapper for the 3Dmol javascript library, which can be used to create visualizations of molecular systems. I find this tool incredibly useful because it means we can visualize a system inside a jupyter notebook. This means that when you're setting up a system, or analyzing results about it, you don't have to leave the notebook, which means you get quick feedback, and can easily share results. For this reason, I've added it to the PyBigDFT library as the InlineVisualizor class.# MolViewer
